HELP DOCUMENTATION
App Name - GUI LIVE SERIAL READER
Author - Matthew Spence

HOW TO USE APP
1. Launch the App
Click "run" on menu_window.py from VS Code and wait a few seconds for it to boot up.

2. Main Window
If you do not have any configurations stored in configurations.json (i.e. that json file
is empty) you will have to create a new configuration by clicking the button labelled
"Create New Configuration". If you already have one or more configurations created then
you can open one of those configurations by clicking on its name. Do not attempt to open
multiple configurations or windows at once.

3. Create New Configuration
When you click the "Create New Configuration" button a small window will open up and
prompt you to enter the name of your new configuration. If the name is a duplicate or
too long, it will prevent you from entering that name. Once you have entered a valid
name, hit return on your keyboard and the main configuration window will open with
your new configuration. 

4. Configuration Window
In the configuration window there is a menu bar with several options located at the
top, which is where you can edit your configuration's settings and control plotting.
Below this menu bar is a blank area, which is where plots get displayed. 

4a. File Dropdown
The "File" tab on the menu bar opens up a drop down menu with a set of options meant
to manage the configuration itself. These options are buttons labelled 
"Rename Configuration", "Save", "Delete", and "Exit to Menu". The "Rename Configuration"
opens up a tiny entry box where you can type a new name for your configuration. Hit enter
to update the name to what you typed, or hit escape to close the entry box. All
the same naming rules apply as when you first created its name. The "Save" option
writes all of the configuration's settings into the program's memory
(configurations.json). Once you save you can close the window or program and it will
retain all the details about your config. If you do not save none of your changes will
be kept. The "Delete" option removes the configuration everywhere from the program, and
bring you back to the main menu. Once you press "Delete" removal will happen immediately
so be careful. You will not be able to recover the configuration afterwards.

4b. Serial Variables Dropdown
The "Serial Variables" tab opens up a drop down menu with several options related to
editing the serial variables attached to the configuration. The serial variables tell
the program how to assign which values to which lines, plots, and also what names each
value gets and what units they are supposed to be in. The dropdown menu reveals the
options labelled "Add Variables", "Edit Variables", and "Delete Variables", which
each open up their own smaller window. The "Add Variables" option allows you to add
serial variables to the configuration. The number assigned to the serial variables
determines which index of data it takes as its own values from the list of values
generated from the serial data. You cannot create serial variables with duplicate numbers.
The name simply allows you to clearly describe what that data point corresponds to.
The units allows you to indicate how each data point is measured. You need to add at
least one serial variable before you can create any lines or plots. You can either add the
serial variable and return to the configuration window, or add it and continue adding
more serial variables. The "Edit Variables" option allows you to modify the attributes
of serial variables you have previously created. It will open a small window with a
list of all the serial variables that exist in the config. By clicking on the name of
a serial variable from this list, you can open another small window which allows you
If you edit the variable number to be the same as another serial variable's number,
those two serial variables will have their numbers swapped. If you change the units of
the serial variable and it creates a unit conflict on a plot axis, the line containing
the edited serial variable will be removed from that plot. You can either finish editing
the serial variable which returns you to configuration window, or you can edit another
serial variable once you are done. The option "Delete Variable" allows you to delete a
serial variable by opening up a list of all the serial variables in the config. By clicking
on the name of a serial variable you can delete it. Once it is deleted, any lines
containing it will also be deleted, and if that creates any lineless plots those plots
will be deleted.

4c. Lines Dropdown
The "Lines" tab opens up a drop down menu with options related to editing the lines stored
by the configuration. The lines each take two serial variables; one for their x-data,
and one for their y-data. 